\chapter{The State of the Art}

  There are a number of existing products that perform similar tasks, using a variety of approaches, for a variety of areas.

\section{Test Frameworks}

  \subsection{Test::Unit}
    The Ruby standard library includes this
module\footnote{\url{http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib-1.9.2/libdoc/test/unit/rdoc/Test/Unit.html}}
which offers to programmers the framework on which test suites can be written
and executed.

Many other competing testing frameworks exist, most providing little added
benefit other than syntactical differences.

SpLATS targets Test::Unit as its output format.

\section{Static Analysis}

  \subsection{KLEE}

\section{Dynamic Analysis} 

  \subsection{ZenTest}
    ZenTest\footnote{\url{http://docs.seattlerb.org/ZenTest/index.html}}
comprises of a suite of 4 tools designed to assist a software developer with
writing tests for their Ruby code. The tool of particular interest within the suite is itself called ZenTest,
it aims to speed the writing of tests by inspecting the class under test (CUT)
and the test class (TC) for the CUT.

    ZenTest compares the functions defined on the CUT with the methods defined
on the TC. It then produces stub test methods on the TC for those methods on the
CUT it believes are untested.

    The deduction of which methods are being tested is performed by analysing
the method names, ZenTest assumes that for every method, \emph{name}, on the
CUT, then there should be a corresponding test method on the TC will be named
with a prefix of \texttt{test\_\emph{name}}. This is a very superficial and
basic method for determining whether a class is fully tested.

    Whilst this tool is extremely useful, it still expects developers to write
the tests themselves. The aim of SpLATS is to focus the attention away from
writing tests, and to allow a developer to just code.

  \subsection{IRULAN}
    IRULAN\footnote{\url{http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~tora/thesis.pdf}} is an automated blackbox testing system for Haskell written by Dr Allwood as his PhD thesis.
    IRULAN performs directed random testing, which is a different method to how SpLATS performs (see below).

  \subsection{Tickling Java with a Feather}
    This\footnote{\url{http://pubs.doc.ic.ac.uk/testing-Java-with-fj/testing-Java-with-fj.pdf}} is another of Dr Allwood's research papers, where he performs automated testing on a subset of the Java language.
    Some of the methods outlined here are useful.

  \subsection{Randoop}
    Randoop\footnote{\url{http://code.google.com/p/randoop/}} is another
feedback-directed random testing framework for Java.

    It generates a progressively growing sequence of method calls, which are
then executed and checked to see if the result is useful, redundant, illegal or
contract-violating. The test is then reused as a seed if determined to be
useful.

    Contract-violating test cases are also output as a means of highlighting
that the CUT violates a semantic rule. The standard contracts are derived from
the Java Language Specification. Further contracts can be added to the system by
the user.

    It has been used to find errors in a number of commonly used libraries.

  \subsection{RuTeG}
    RuTeG\footnote{S. Mairhofer, R. Feldt, R. Torkar, Search-based software
testing and Test Data Generation for a Dynamic Programming Language} (Ruby Test
case Generator) is a project with similar aims to SpLATS, but approaches the
problem from a slightly different angle.

RuTeG attempts to find the appropriate type of variable to pass into the CUT
methods by using a selecting data generator for each argument. This selection
forms a part of the search space of the test generation, which is directed using
a genetic algorithm.

RuTeG was successful in its aims to achieve higher-level coverage at a faster
rate than a random search method.
